README.md, before:

# Antistasi by Golias

This is a modified version of Antistasi scenario for ARMA 3 that deals with some of the issues of the original version.

Antistasi is a scenario where you fight as a guerrilla liberator to flip the island to your side.
This modified version has the same mechanics and the same features but improves some aspects of it.

* The arsenal works as expected: weapons that are in the HQ ammo box are available to use.
* Multiple saved games: server/SP can now choose the saved game to load, save, or delete.
* Clients stats are saved in the server and saved when the server is saved.
* The HQ is now fully saved: both items positions (e.g. flag) and new constructions (e.g. sandbags).
* There is no unlocking mechanism: everything is always finite. You lose half of every item if the HQ is destroyed.
* Camps gives access to the arsenal: everything available in the HQ is available in camps (and you can store things there without having them lost).
* All game and performance options, including AI skill and cleanup time, are now modifiable by the commander.
* There is no "petros cavalary": this is the commander's responsibility.
* Menus were remade from scratch to better accommodate more buttons and other layouts.
* Locations backend was rewritten from scratch.

The code was greatly simplified, cleaned, and reduced for DRY (e.g. for every 1 line added, 2 lines were deleted, I have +4 years experience as professional programer).

# Mod support

* ACE
* VCOM
* RHS

# Replacing Factions

This version supports easy replacement of modded factions. Use the following steps:

1. Duplicate the file `templates/AAF.sqf` (for independents), `templates/NATO.sqf` (for NATO)
or `templates/CSAT.sqf` (for CSAT)
2. Modify the existing fields with your units, vehicles and groups.
3. In the `initVar.sqf`, when the files are compiled and called, add a condition to run your files when a condition is met.
4. Load the game with the mod of that faction.

Essentially, our code detects every unit from that faction, and populates
the correct lists with the equipment (weapons, items, vests, etc.) that the units use.
This way, you only need to focus on adding vehicles, groups and units; the rest is automatic.

In the vanilla version, everything related to AAF is only defined in `templates/AAF.sqf`.

# Replacing Worlds

This version supports easy replacement of worlds. Use the following steps:

1. Create an empty mission in the EDEN editor for the world of your choice.
2. Create a marker named "FIA_HQ" (where the HQ is placed in the beginning).
3. Create markers on different points of interest. These can be airfields, bases, etc.
The markers names must start with "AS_airfield", "AS_base", etc.
2. Add markers to it.

Essentially, our code detects every unit from that faction, and populates
the correct lists with the equipment (weapons, items, vests, etc.) that the units use.
This way, you only need to focus on adding vehicles, groups and units; the rest is automatic.

In the vanilla version, everything related to AAF is only defined in `templates/AAF.sqf`.

# Development

Development of this mission is easy. We currently only use the following software to do it:

* Arma 3
* A text editor. We recommend [Atom](https://atom.io/) with plugins [language-arma-atom](https://atom.io/packages/language-arma-atom) and [linter-sqf](https://atom.io/packages/linter-sqf) but any will do.
* [DSynchronize](https://dsynchronize.en.softonic.com/), so the development does not occur on an Arma user, but on any computer.
* The version control system [git](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git)

Steps after installing the software above:

1. Fork this repository on GitHub
2. `git clone` your forked repository to directory SOURCE (e.g. `C:\Users\Golias\Documents\a3Projects\`, e.g. with power shell)
3. open Arma 3 and create a new profile `antistasi_edit`.
4. start DSynchronize and
    1. create a new job
    2. add a source (e.g. `C:\Users\Golias\Documents\a3Projects\Antistasi\Antistasi`)
    3. add a destination (e.g. `C:\Users\Golias\Documents\Arma 3 - Other Profiles\antistasi_edit\missions\Antistasi.Altis`)
    4. tick the option `Save settings on exit`, untick `Bidirectional sync` and tick `realtime sync`
    5. When asked to sync first time, say yes.

Step 4. guarantees that when you modify the source code in directory SOURCE (tracked by git), the files are automatically copied to the destination, and
are therefore available to test on Arma 3 Eden editor.

Lets test that everything works:

1. Open the Eden editor (on profile `antistasi_edit`), and the text editor on directory X.
2. Start the preview. The mission should start as normal.
3. In the file `antistasi/init.sqf`, search for `skipTime`, and delete the line `skipTime random 24` (i.e. make the mission always start at the same time).
4. Save the file. Once you do this, you may open DSynchronize window and confirm that the file `init.sqf` was copied (updated) to the destination.
5. Restart the mission. The mission should have now always started at 6am sharp.

In summary, you modified this version of antistasi and tested it.

Note that if you modify the `mission.sqm` on SOURCE, you will need to load it again in the editor.
`mission.sqm` can be modified in Eden editor for testing, but it is not copied back to SOURCE and will be lost when
you load it again. To change this behavior, tick the box `Bidirectional sync` in DSynchronize.

# Debug tools

Run

```
[true] AS_DEBUG_init;
```

to show in the map all units (dead or alive) and locations that are currently spawned.
This helps tracking if CPU is being used unnecessarily. Use `false` to
reverse it.

# Code structure

- `Municion/` -> scripts related with weapons, arsenal and boxes.
- `CREATE/` -> scripts related with spawing places, units and convoys.
- `statSave/` -> scripts related with loading and saving the game.
- `location.sqf`: contains all the code for interacting with locations

## Initialization

The relevant scripts are `init.sqf`, `initServer.sqf`, and `initPlayerLocal.sqf`.

`initPlayerLocal.sqf` is responsible for initializing the player. This includes
Event Handling, available actions, etc.

In SP, `init.sqf` is called and then `initPlayerLocal.sqf`.
In MP, `initServer.sqf` is responsible for the server, and `initPlayerLocal.sqf` for the client.

## Memory management

- Scripts that create stuff are responsible for cleaning them in the end, by tracking everything they created.
- Other units are managed by the client or server.

## Persistent saving

The code in `statSave/saveFuncs.sqf` is responsible for saving stuff.
Essentially, the following things are saved:

- Variables in the Logic `AS_persistent` named in the array `statSave/saveFuncs.AS_serverVariables`.
- Locations properties, defined in `AS_fnc_location_saved_properties`.
- Various global variables

## Locations

A location is a place in the map that is spawned/despawned under certain conditions.
Each location is represented by a string (e.g. `_location = "FIA_HQ";`)
and it has a type (e.g. `"base"`, `"resource"`). Each location "owns" a hidden marker
that is used to represent its position.

`location.sqf` contains all the functions that you use to interact with locations.
It contains functions to:

* get properties:

```
_side = _location call AS_fnc_location_side;
_position = _location call AS_fnc_location_position;
_size = [_location,"size"] call AS_fnc_location_get;
```

* set properties:

```
_side = [_location,"side","AAF"] call AS_fnc_location_set;
```

* add and delete locations

```
[_marker,"roadblock"] call AS_fnc_location_add;
[_marker,"side","FIA"] call AS_fnc_location_set;
// ...
_marker call AS_fnc_location_delete;
```

* list locations of a certain type or side:

```
call AS_fnc_location_all
// [T]ype and [S]ide
_bases = "base" call AS_fnc_location_T;
_FIAlocations = "FIA" call AS_fnc_location_S;
_FIAbases = ["base","AAF"] call AS_fnc_location_TS;
[["base","airfield"],"FIA"] call AS_fnc_location_TS;
```

To get all properties of a given location, use,

```
_type = _location call AS_fnc_location_type;
hint str (_type call AS_fnc_location_properties);
```

Internally, all information about the locations is stored in the logic
`AS_location`, but you should not access its data directly: use `AS_fnc_location_*`.
The functions in `location.sqf` are documented, so you can learn which they are
and what they do.

`spawnLoop.sqf` is the loop that controls which locations are spawned.
When opposing forces reach (or other conditions), this loop spawns the location.
Each location is spawned differently depending on its side and type,
the scripts responsible for creating units, etc. are in `CREATE/`.

### Initialization

When the game is loaded, locations are loaded from the markers in
the `mission.sqm`. Specifically, markers starting with a given string
are converted to locations using the following convention

* `"AS_powerplant"`: `"powerplant"`
* `"AS_base"`: `"base"`
* etc.

Cities (`"city"`) and hills (`"hill","hillAA"`) are initialized differently,
see `templates/world_altis.sqf` to learn how.

## FIA HQ

The FIA HQ is a location (called `fia_hq`) always controlled by FIA.
The following scripts are relevant to change its position:

- `fnc_HQselect.sqf`: client script to choose a position for the HQ
- `fnc_HQplace.sqf`: teleport FIA HQ to a given location (initially-place or rebuild)
- `fnc_HQdeploy.sqf`: places permanent HQ structures in FIA HQ position
- `fnc_HQmove.sqf`: make petros join commander's group and allow the commander to use `fnc_HQbuild.sqf`
- `fnc_HQbuild.sqf`: spawn the FIA HQ in petros current location (move the HQ)

3 different events can cause the HQ to change position:
- initial placement: execute `fnc_HQselect.sqf` which then calls `fnc_HQplace.sqf`
- Commander chooses to move the HQ: execute `fnc_HQmove.sqf` and then `fnc_HQbuild.sqf`
- HQ is destroyed: execute `fnc_HQselect.sqf` which then calls `fnc_HQplace.sqf`

Both `fnc_HQbuild.sqf` and `fnc_HQplace.sqf` call `fnc_HQdeploy.sqf` to position the permanent structures.

The HQ also has objects that can be spawned by the commander. The scripts that handle these are:

- `fnc_HQaddObject.sqf`: adds or delete a HQ object.

Other related functions:

- `statSave/saveFuncs.sqf/AS_fnc_saveHQ`: persistently save the HQ objects
- `statSave/saveFuncs.sqf/AS_fnc_loadHQ`: persistently load the HQ objects
- `fnc_initPetros.sqf`: restart petros (creates a new petros unit)

Related globals:

- `AS_permanent_HQplacements`: all permanent HQ objects (e.g. caja)
- `AS_HQ_placements`: all non-permanent HQ objects (e.g. sandbags)

## Vehicles

Vehicles are bought by FIA or AAF, or are spawned by NATO/CSAT. Afterwards:

- NATO vehicles are locked and can not be sold/stored by FIA.
- AAF/CSAT vehicles are unlocked and can be sold/used by FIA.
- FIA vehicles are unlocked can be sold/used by FIA.
- FIA personal vehicles are locked to others.

### AAF Arsenal

The AAF has an arsenal of vehicles that it buys with AAF money.
AAF has different categories of vehicles that are defined in `AAFarsenal.sqf`
that can be modified in the `templates/` (e.g. for RHS).

## AAF attacks

The AAF attacks from time to time. The relevant variable that controls this is the
`AS_P("secondsForAAFattack")`. This variable is modified via `fnc_changeSecondsForAAFattack`.
The script that starts attacks is the `ataqueAAF.sqf`. It is run from the loop in `resourcecheck.sqf`
when `AS_P("secondsForAAFattack") == 0`. `ataqueAAF.sqf` checks whether it is worth to attack
a given location, and, if yes, it spawns the attack accordingly using `CSATpunish.sqf` (for cities),
`combinedCA.sqf` (for other locations), and `Mission/CONVOY.sqf` (when no locations are available to attack).

## Minefields

Minefields are created and destroyed like other locations. The AAF buys
minefields and places them on the map. These can be found by FIA after which
they appear on the map (mines are still hidden and have to be found via mine detectors).
The FIA commander can also create minefields on the map.

Minefields (from both sides) are deleted when they contain no mines (exploded or defused).

Relevant scripts:

* `Create/minefield.sqf`: spawns an existing FIA/AAF minefield
* `Functions/fnc_addMinefield.sqf`: adds a new minefield
* `Functions/fnc_deployAAFminefield.sqf`: tries to find a suitable position and creates an AAF minefield (called by `AAFeconomics.sqf`).
* `Functions/fnc_deployFIAminefield.sqf`: interface for the player to choose a position and mine positions to place a minefield (it creates a mission).
* `REINF\missionFIAminefield.sqf`: the mission that creates a FIA minefield

Commit message:

Migrated all missions to new system.

README.md, after:

# Antistasi by Golias

This is a modified version of Antistasi scenario for ARMA 3 that deals with some of the issues of the original version.

Antistasi is a scenario where you fight as a guerrilla liberator to flip the island to your side.
This modified version has the same mechanics and the same features but improves some aspects of it.

* The arsenal works as expected: weapons that are in the HQ ammo box are available to use.
* Multiple saved games: server/SP can now choose the saved game to load, save, or delete.
* Clients stats are saved in the server and saved when the server is saved.
* The HQ is now fully saved: both items positions (e.g. flag) and new constructions (e.g. sandbags).
* There is no unlocking mechanism: everything is always finite. You lose half of every item if the HQ is destroyed.
* Camps gives access to the arsenal: everything available in the HQ is available in camps (and you can store things there without having them lost).
* All game and performance options, including AI skill and cleanup time, are now modifiable by the commander.
* There is no "petros cavalary": this is the commander's responsibility.
* Menus were remade from scratch to better accommodate more buttons and other layouts.
* Locations backend was rewritten from scratch.
* Missions backend was rewritten from scratch.

The code was greatly simplified, cleaned, and reduced for DRY (e.g. for every 1 line added, 2 lines were deleted, I have +4 years experience as professional programer).

# Mod support

* ACE
* VCOM
* RHS

# Replacing Factions

This version supports easy replacement of modded factions. Use the following steps:

1. Duplicate the file `templates/AAF.sqf` (for independents), `templates/NATO.sqf` (for NATO)
or `templates/CSAT.sqf` (for CSAT)
2. Modify the existing fields with your units, vehicles and groups.
3. In the `initVar.sqf`, when the files are compiled and called, add a condition to run your files when a condition is met.
4. Load the game with the mod of that faction.

Essentially, our code detects every unit from that faction, and populates
the correct lists with the equipment (weapons, items, vests, etc.) that the units use.
This way, you only need to focus on adding vehicles, groups and units; the remaining is automatic.

Everything related to the faction AAF is defined only in `templates/AAF.sqf`.

# Replacing Worlds

This version supports easy replacement of worlds. Use the following steps:

1. Create an empty mission in the EDEN editor for the world of your choice.
2. Create a marker named "FIA_HQ" (where the HQ is placed in the beginning).
3. Create markers on different points of interest. These can be airfields, bases, etc.
The markers names must start with "AS_airfield", "AS_base", etc.
2. Add markers to it.

# Development

Development of this mission is easy. We currently only use the following software to do it:

* Arma 3
* A text editor. We recommend [Atom](https://atom.io/) with plugins [language-arma-atom](https://atom.io/packages/language-arma-atom) and [linter-sqf](https://atom.io/packages/linter-sqf) but any will do.
* [DSynchronize](https://dsynchronize.en.softonic.com/), so the development does not occur on an Arma user, but on any computer.
* The version control system [git](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git)

Steps after installing the software above:

1. Fork this repository on GitHub
2. `git clone` your forked repository to directory SOURCE (e.g. `C:\Users\Golias\Documents\a3Projects\`, e.g. with power shell)
3. open Arma 3 and create a new profile `antistasi_edit`.
4. start DSynchronize and
    1. create a new job
    2. add a source (e.g. `C:\Users\Golias\Documents\a3Projects\Antistasi\Antistasi`)
    3. add a destination (e.g. `C:\Users\Golias\Documents\Arma 3 - Other Profiles\antistasi_edit\missions\Antistasi.Altis`)
    4. tick the option `Save settings on exit`, untick `Bidirectional sync` and tick `realtime sync`
    5. When asked to sync first time, say yes.

Step 4. guarantees that when you modify the source code in directory SOURCE (tracked by git), the files are automatically copied to the destination, and are therefore available to test on Arma 3 Eden editor.

Test that everything works:

1. Open the Eden editor (on profile `antistasi_edit`), and the text editor on directory X.
2. Start the preview. The mission should start as normal.
3. In the file `antistasi/init.sqf`, search for `skipTime`, and delete the line `skipTime random 24` (i.e. make the mission always start at the same time).
4. Save the file. Once you do this, you may open DSynchronize window and confirm that the file `init.sqf` was copied (updated) to the destination.
5. Restart the mission. The mission should have now always started at 6am sharp.

In summary, you modified this version of antistasi and tested it.

Note that if you modify the `mission.sqm` on SOURCE, you will need to load it again in the editor.
`mission.sqm` can be modified in Eden editor for testing, but it is not copied back to SOURCE and will be lost when
you load it again. To change this behavior, tick the box `Bidirectional sync` in DSynchronize.

# Debug tools

Run

```
[true] AS_DEBUG_init;
```

to show in the map all units (dead or alive) and locations that are currently spawned.
This helps tracking if CPU is being used unnecessarily. Use `false` to
reverse it.

# Code structure

- `Municion/` -> scripts related with weapons, arsenal and boxes.
- `CREATE/` -> scripts related with spawing places, units and convoys.
- `statSave/` -> scripts related with loading and saving the game.
- `location.sqf`: contains all the code for interacting with locations

## Initialization

The relevant scripts are `init.sqf`, `initServer.sqf`, and `initPlayerLocal.sqf`.

`initPlayerLocal.sqf` is responsible for initializing the player. This includes
Event Handling, available actions, etc.

In SP, `init.sqf` is called and then `initPlayerLocal.sqf`.
In MP, `initServer.sqf` is responsible for the server, and `initPlayerLocal.sqf` for the client.

## Memory management

- Scripts that create stuff are responsible for cleaning them in the end, by tracking everything they created.
- Other units are managed by the client or server.

## Persistent saving

The code in `statSave/saveFuncs.sqf` is responsible for saving stuff.
Essentially, the following things are saved:

- Variables in the Logic `AS_persistent` named in the array `statSave/saveFuncs.AS_serverVariables`.
- Locations properties, defined in `AS_fnc_location_saved_properties`.
- Various global variables

## Locations

A location is a place in the map that is spawned/despawned under certain conditions.
Each location is represented by a string (e.g. `_location = "FIA_HQ";`)
and it has a type (e.g. `"base"`, `"resource"`). Each location "owns" a hidden marker
that is used to represent its position.

`location.sqf` contains all the functions that you use to interact with locations.
It contains functions to:

* get properties:

```
_side = _location call AS_fnc_location_side;
_position = _location call AS_fnc_location_position;
_size = [_location,"size"] call AS_fnc_location_get;
```

* set properties:

```
_side = [_location,"side","AAF"] call AS_fnc_location_set;
```

* add and delete locations

```
[_marker,"roadblock"] call AS_fnc_location_add;
[_marker,"side","FIA"] call AS_fnc_location_set;
// ...
_marker call AS_fnc_location_delete;
```

* list locations of a certain type or side:

```
call AS_fnc_location_all
// [T]ype and [S]ide
_bases = "base" call AS_fnc_location_T;
_FIAlocations = "FIA" call AS_fnc_location_S;
_FIAbases = ["base","AAF"] call AS_fnc_location_TS;
[["base","airfield"],"FIA"] call AS_fnc_location_TS;
```

To get all properties of a given location, use,

```
_type = _location call AS_fnc_location_type;
hint str (_type call AS_fnc_location_properties);
```

Internally, all information about the locations is stored in the logic
`AS_location`, but you should not access its data directly: use `AS_fnc_location_*`.
The functions in `location.sqf` are documented, so you can learn which they are
and what they do.

`spawnLoop.sqf` is the loop that controls which locations are spawned.
When opposing forces reach (or other conditions), this loop spawns the location.
Each location is spawned differently depending on its side and type,
the scripts responsible for creating units, etc. are in `CREATE/`.

### Initialization

When the game is loaded, locations are loaded from the markers in
the `mission.sqm`. Specifically, markers starting with a given string
are converted to locations using the following convention

* `"AS_powerplant"`: `"powerplant"`
* `"AS_base"`: `"base"`
* etc.

Cities (`"city"`) and hills (`"hill","hillAA"`) are initialized differently,
see `templates/world_altis.sqf` to learn how.

## FIA HQ

The FIA HQ is a location (called `fia_hq`) always controlled by FIA.
The following scripts are relevant to change its position:

- `fnc_HQselect.sqf`: client script to choose a position for the HQ
- `fnc_HQplace.sqf`: teleport FIA HQ to a given location (initially-place or rebuild)
- `fnc_HQdeploy.sqf`: places permanent HQ structures in FIA HQ position
- `fnc_HQmove.sqf`: make petros join commander's group and allow the commander to use `fnc_HQbuild.sqf`
- `fnc_HQbuild.sqf`: spawn the FIA HQ in petros current location (move the HQ)

3 different events can cause the HQ to change position:
- initial placement: execute `fnc_HQselect.sqf` which then calls `fnc_HQplace.sqf`
- Commander chooses to move the HQ: execute `fnc_HQmove.sqf` and then `fnc_HQbuild.sqf`
- HQ is destroyed: execute `fnc_HQselect.sqf` which then calls `fnc_HQplace.sqf`

Both `fnc_HQbuild.sqf` and `fnc_HQplace.sqf` call `fnc_HQdeploy.sqf` to position the permanent structures.

The HQ also has objects that can be spawned by the commander. The scripts that handle these are:

- `fnc_HQaddObject.sqf`: adds or delete a HQ object.

Other related functions:

- `statSave/saveFuncs.sqf/AS_fnc_saveHQ`: persistently save the HQ objects
- `statSave/saveFuncs.sqf/AS_fnc_loadHQ`: persistently load the HQ objects
- `fnc_initPetros.sqf`: restart petros (creates a new petros unit)

Related globals:

- `AS_permanent_HQplacements`: all permanent HQ objects (e.g. caja)
- `AS_HQ_placements`: all non-permanent HQ objects (e.g. sandbags)

## Missions

A mission is a persistent data structure that has a `type` (e.g. `kill_officer`),
a `status` (e.g. `available`), and other properties. These properties are used
to call scripts that start a scripted set of events with tasks for the players.
Every script is stored in the directory `Missions/`, and the API to
create, start, and cancel missions is defined in `Missions/mission.sqf`.
For example, to create the mission to `kill_officer` in city `_cityName`, use

```
// create and save it persistently
["kill_officer", _cityName] call AS_fnc_mission_add;
// spawn its script
["kill_officer", true] AS_fnc_mission_activate;
...
// delete it (do not do it until the script finishes):
"kill_officer" AS_fnc_mission_remove;
```

## Vehicles

Vehicles are bought by FIA or AAF, or are spawned by NATO/CSAT. Afterwards:

- NATO vehicles are locked and can not be sold/stored by FIA.
- AAF/CSAT vehicles are unlocked and can be sold/used by FIA.
- FIA vehicles are unlocked can be sold/used by FIA.
- FIA personal vehicles are locked to others.

### AAF Arsenal

The AAF has an arsenal of vehicles that it buys with AAF money.
AAF has different categories of vehicles that are defined in `AAFarsenal.sqf`
that can be modified in the `templates/` (e.g. for RHS).

## AAF attacks

The AAF attacks from time to time. The relevant variable that controls this is the
`AS_P("secondsForAAFattack")`. This variable is modified via `fnc_changeSecondsForAAFattack`.
The script that starts attacks is the `ataqueAAF.sqf`. It is run from the loop in `resourcecheck.sqf`
when `AS_P("secondsForAAFattack") == 0`. `ataqueAAF.sqf` checks whether it is worth to attack
a given location, and, if yes, it spawns the attack accordingly using `CSATpunish.sqf` (for cities)
and `combinedCA.sqf` (for other locations).

## Minefields

Minefields are created and destroyed like other locations. The AAF buys
minefields and places them on the map. These can be found by FIA after which
they appear on the map (mines are still hidden and have to be found via mine detectors).
The FIA commander can also create minefields on the map.

Minefields (from both sides) are deleted when they contain no mines (exploded or defused).

Relevant scripts:

* `Create/minefield.sqf`: spawns an existing FIA/AAF minefield
* `Functions/fnc_addMinefield.sqf`: adds a new minefield
* `Functions/fnc_deployAAFminefield.sqf`: tries to find a suitable position and creates an AAF minefield (called by `AAFeconomics.sqf`).
* `Functions/fnc_deployFIAminefield.sqf`: interface for the player to choose a position and mine positions to place a minefield (it creates a mission).
* `Missions\missionFIAminefield.sqf`: the mission that creates a FIA minefield
